# Nova_Scotia_Air_Pollution_Analysis
This repository contains the datasets, data warehouse scripts, ETL processes, and Tableau visualizations for the Nova Scotia Air Pollution Analysis.

The interactive dashboard is located here: https://public.tableau.com/profile/carlo.carandang#!/vizhome/DW_Tableauwithstorywithtimeseriesfinal/Story3

The detailed report is located here: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/324166588_Analysis_of_Air_Pollution_in_Nova_Scotia.

OBJECTIVES: This project is an analysis of air pollution in Nova Scotia, as air pollution is detrimental to health, the environment, and the economy. In this era of green and smart cities initiatives, it is important to have accurate information about air pollution. This project involves acquiring the datasets, cleaning, extracting, transforming, loading, and visualizing the results of the analysis. METHODS: This project involved obtaining data from an open data portal on the internet, loading the data into our analytical environment, exploring the data using analytical software, cleaning the data, building a data warehouse, determining feature and outcome variables, and visualizing the data. Cloud Dataprep was utilized to perform exploratory analysis and cleaning. Oracle 11g Express Edition was used to build the data warehouse. Tableau was used for visualization. The datasets are air pollution data in Nova Scotia. RESULTS: After preprocessing in Cloud Dataprep and ETL (Extract Transform Load) in Oracle DB, Tableau was utilized to give insights into regions in Nova Scotia which have the most pollution now and in the past, and gave information on pollution levels in the future. CONCLUSION: In this era of green and smart cities initiatives, it is important for stakeholders to have access to important air quality indicators, such as air pollution from fine particulate matter, smaller than 2.5 micrometers per cubic metre. As such, stakeholders need information regarding problem pollution areas in Nova Scotia, so that interventions can be initiated to decrease the air pollution in those locales. Also, accurate information is needed to determine the effects that interventions will have on decreasing air pollution. Finally, accurate forecasts are needed to anticipate problem pollution areas, so that stakeholders can address pollution problems before they occur.
